All right in this video I want to talk about interface naming conventions, the best practices around
naming, because I get a lot of questions as we get into Dependency Injection.
How should I name my interfaces? How should I name the implementation of the interfaces?
So I want to give you some general rules of thumb.
The interface should be a good object name. For example if you look at Java's List interface.
There's literally thousands of implementations of the List interface like a ArrayList, LinkedList, CheckList,
SingletonList.
I mean there's stuff out there I have never even heard of.
Sure what they do to be honest.
So these are all good names for it.
So the list when you implement the list you really don't care what it is. You're just asking for a list
object and an implementation of it.
So you don't get down to the nitty gritty details of the difference between an ArrayList and a
LinkedList.
You don't care when you're using the list interface as it should be.
Some people like to start their interfaces with that letter 'I' and I'm saying no I list.
I think this is a dot net community thing where they prefix the interface name with an 'I' so you know
that as an interface.
So it gives you a visual interface and the Java folks really don't like that. We don't like to see
that I in front of it interface name.
So when you name the interface go ahead and make a good object name and that's something that you're
going to be utilizing.
Now let's talk about the implementation of that. When there is just one implementation, that's generally
acceptable to user interface and then Impl.
So going back to list you could use a list
Impl
I M P L for implementation.
This is very accepted within the Java community.
I've had students come back and say hey you're using Impl rather than something that makes sense.
Generally if you only have one.
It's OK to use Impl.
So if you don't see a need for one error, make a distinction there, perfectly fine to use just
Impl. Largely accepted within the community.
However if you're gonna have multiple implementations of the interface then that name should indicate
the difference of that.
So that's very important.
Impl, if you're only gonna have one. Very common within Spring to just have one implementation of
an interface and then when you get to testing you're going to be using that interface to generate mocks
or stubs and things like that for your test framework then maybe you want to give those implementations
a name or just happen to use a mock or you really don't name it.
And that's perfectly fine.
But the key point is where you just have one, Impl is fine. If you have more than one, then give something
in the name of it to indicate the difference.
So I'm going to jump over to IntelliJ now and show you an example of this in action.
OK.
I have the pet clinic app.
I am not going to save what I'm showing here to source code but what I want to do is create a Java class
let's say some controller like so. I'm going to go ahead and add that like so. I'm going to have... I don't
want to do that. I'm going to be deleting these.
So I have some controller and then let's create a Java class and I'm going to make this interface like
so and oops I added that. Take about a habit.
This is not going into Git. I'm just doing this for demonstration purposes.
So I might say private final my service my service.
Like so. I'm just going to hit that and add in a constructor parameter so that's automatically going to populate
that.
So now what my controller my controller named some controllers asking for a class that implements my
service. So now if I come over to my service, I'm going to hit alt enter
Implement interface.
Now I could do an implementation like this, perfectly valid where I'm doing the Impl. But what I'm
going to be showing you coming up in the pet clinic if I wanted to do this, what I might want to do is
let's refactor this. Rename.
If I can generate to this
so it's coming up my service impl and let's say JPA.
In the naming, I'm doing JPA just for illustrative purposes.
So what I'm gonna be doing coming up in the pet clinic application I'm going to implement services where
we can get objects from a hash map at runtime and then later we're going to start using a database and
I want to use Spring profiles because what I want to be able to do is use Spring profiles as to how
this controller gets wired either with an implementation of using a hash map for the objects that are
being returned from the service or I want to be using JPA to return object from a database.
So these are two implementations. But just to get your head around how this is being worked, I've created
three four different objects here.
I have my controller that wants an implementation of my service as my services the interface and now
I'm going to allow Spring to wire in either implementation of the hash map implementation or the JPA implementation.
And I've used Impl.
Some people would say just use JPA and hash map.
I'm not going to get down to that nitty gritty here.
I'm using these as illustrative purposes because now if I look at the concrete classes of my service
hash map Impl, I know that this is going to be related to the implementing that service using a hash
map.
Likewise with JPA I know that's going to be implementing a service with JPA. But the way I like to think
about it is when I'm working with the controller, I don't want to care how that service is implemented.
All I want to do is ask the framework Springs Inversion of control container.
I will say container to implement or inject an implementation of that and we're going to use Spring
configuration as to how to inject that.
So this gives us a lot of versatility.
Well from a standpoint of developing and were I care about things I don't care about the implementation
of my service. I'm going to allow spring to determine that.
Now you can say I have two implementations there. It's clear from their naming.
I hope this clears this up.
There's a lot of opinions on this.
I'm giving you my opinion.
It may counter others but I do see this generally accepted in the industry.
So just to recap what we're talking about for naming interfaces and implementations if it's the interface
use a valid object name so you can see here implementing my service.
So that's a valid object name. It is very common.
Just follow good object naming conventions there and then for the implementation if there's just one
perfectly acceptable to use IMPL. There's more than one use something in the name of it to indicate
the difference of the functionality so that you know in this example one is a hash map implementation
and the other is a JPA implementation.
So give people something to go off them and you're naming conventions so always remember when you are
coding code as read by others.
A lot more than it is written.
So there's a lot more time studying and reading what code does.
So when you're on a team how about your team members by naming stuff that makes sense in ways that makes
sense and is intuitive.